 Definition
HIV stands for Human Immunodeficiency Virus. It is a virus that targets the immune system and weakens people's defense systems against infections and some types of cancer. AIDS stands for Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome. It is the final stage of HIV infection.

Pathophysiology
The most common way to diagnose HIV infection is through blood tests. These tests look for antibodies to the virus that the body creates in an attempt to fight the virus.

There are a number of different types of HIV tests available. The most common type of test is the ELISA test. This test is used to screen for HIV antibodies in the blood. If the ELISA test is positive, a Western blot test is usually done to confirm the diagnosis. The Western blot test is a more specific test that looks for specific proteins that are produced by the HIV virus.

Other types of HIV tests include the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test and the rapid HIV test. The PCR test is a very sensitive test that can detect HIV in the blood even before antibodies to the virus have developed. The rapid HIV test is a less sensitive test, but it can provide results in as little as 10 minutes.

Symptoms of HIV
The symptoms of HIV vary depending on the stage of the infection. In the early stages, people may experience flu-like symptoms such as fever, chills, muscle aches, and fatigue. These symptoms usually go away within a few weeks.

As the infection progresses, people may develop more severe symptoms such as weight loss, diarrhea, and night sweats. They may also develop opportunistic infections, which are infections that take advantage of the weakened immune system. Opportunistic infections can include pneumonia, tuberculosis, and toxoplasmosis.

In the final stage of HIV infection, people may develop AIDS. AIDS is characterized by a severe weakening of the immune system. People with AIDS are at risk of developing a wide range of opportunistic infections and cancers.

Treatment for HIV
There is no cure for HIV, but there are treatments that can help people manage the infection and live longer, healthier lives. These treatments are called antiretroviral therapy (ART). ART works by stopping the HIV virus from multiplying in the body. This can help to improve the immune system and prevent the development of opportunistic infections and cancers.

It is important to start ART as soon as possible after being diagnosed with HIV. Early treatment can help to prevent the virus from damaging the immune system and can lead to a longer, healthier life.

Prevention of HIV
There are a number of things that people can do to prevent HIV infection. These include:

Using condoms during sex
Not sharing needles or other drug paraphernalia
Getting tested for HIV and knowing your status
Talking to your doctor about pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP), which is a medication that can help to prevent HIV infection

Epidemiology
HIV is a global pandemic. According to the World Health Organization, there were an estimated 37.7 million people living with HIV worldwide in 2020. The majority of people living with HIV are in sub-Saharan Africa.

In the United States, there were an estimated 1.2 million people living with HIV in 2020. The majority of people living with HIV in the United States are men who have sex with men.

It is important to note that these numbers are only estimates. The actual number of people living with HIV may be higher or lower than these estimates.
