 + 1 POLIO
Definition
• Polio is also known as:
○ Poliomyelitis
• Infantile Paralysis
The polio virus is a picornavirus (family: Picornaviridae).
It is an acute viral infectious disease which can lead to
permanent paralysis of muscles in one or more limbs, the
throat, or the chest in serious cases.
• Paralysis usually is seen in less than 1% of the affected
individuals.
• More than half of the cases is usually seen among children
under 5 years of age.
• Through the widespread use of polio vaccines, polio has been
fortunately wiped out from most of the countries since the
1960s.
Etiology
• Polio is caused by the polio virus.
These viruses inhabit or colonizes the gastrointestinal tract.
• Routes of spread
o Faecal-oral route
o Oral-Oral route
o Intake of contaminated water or food.
Epidemiology
• The Global epidemiology of vaccine - derived polio virus in
the year 2016-2021 is represented in a pie diagram.
eVDPV3: 6 cases
(<0.1%)
eVDPV2&3: 1 case
(<0.1%)
eVDPV2: 1728
cases (82.6%)
WPV1: 273
cases
(13.1%)
eVDPV1: 83 cases
(4.0%)
Pathophysiology
Refer Flow Chart 82.1
Diagnosis
• Medical History
• The medical history of the patient is taken in order to find
out any possible exposure to any case of polio.
• History of polio vaccine is also taken.
○ Individuals who are vaccinated are usually protected from
the infection.
• Physical Examination
• All the systems are checked which includes examination
of the respiratory muscles as polio that affects the spinal
cord and brain stem may affect the respiratory muscles.
• Muscle reflexes are tested.
Acute flaccid paralysis
• Acute Flaccid Paralysis (AFP) is a common clinical
manifestation of poliomyelitis.
○ AFP is the sudden onset of flaccid paralysis in one or more
limbs.
Lab Diagnosis
o This includes the routine blood tests.
• Increase in the level of WBCs is a possible indication.
Cerebrospinal Fluid Examination:
o The CSF is tested using a lumbar puncture.
• The sample taken out is then sent to the laboratory.
o In a routine CSF examination, the following factors are
assessed: cells, sugar levels and other chemicals in the
CSF.
Throat washing
○ Throat washing is taken and assessed in order to look for
virus.
○ Culture that is tested positive for the virus is then detected
under the microscope.
• Faecal samples are also tested for polio virus.
Blood Tests
o Blood is tested to detect antibodies for polio virus.
Fingerprinting the polio virus
o After the polio virus is isolated, it is tested by a special test
called oligonucleotide mapping (fingerprinting) or
genomic sequencing.
o This is o detect the origin of the polio virus (If it is: "wild
type" or "vaccine like").
○ Wild type virus is seen in the environment and is seen as 3
subtypes: P1, P2 and P3.
o Vaccine like virus is derived as a result of a spontaneous
mutation of the genes of the virus in the polio vaccine.
288 /
