 Definition
A prolactinoma is a benign (non-cancerous) tumor that forms in the pituitary gland.
This leads to the over production of prolactin hormone.
50% of prolactinomas are small in size.
They are called microprolactinomas (less than 1 cm or 3/8th of an inch in diameter).
Microprolactinomas are more commonly diagnosed in females due to the disruption of menses by hyperprolactinemia.
Larger prolactinomas are usually found in males and are diagnosed at a later age due to the lack of symptoms.
They are larger than 1 cm or 3/8th of an inch and are known as macroprolactinomas.

Prolactin hormone
Responsible for the development of mammary glands within the breast tissue.
Facilitates lactation and milk production.
Prolactin levels are low among males and non-lactating and non-pregnant women.
Prolactinomas can cause increased blood prolactin levels which can lead to several health issues, including infertility.
Elevated prolactin levels inhibit secretion of FSH and LH, leading to an ovulation and decreased production of estrogen.

Etiology
The actual cause of prolactinoma is usually unknown as they are sporadic.
Prolactinoma may occur as a part of multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN 1), which is an inherited condition.
Microprolactinomas are more common among females, and macroprolactinomas are more common among males.

Epidemiology
These non-cancerous pituitary tumors are common in the general population.
Studies show that 30-40% of pituitary adenomas are prolactinomas.
Hence, they can be considered as the most common type of pituitary tumor.
More than 90% of clinically diagnosed prolactinomas are microplactinomas, and they are much more common than macroadenomas.
About 1 in 10,000 people have a prolactinoma.
Prolactinoma can occur in all sexes at any age.
But it is more common in women between 20 to 50 years of age.

Pathophysiology
Secretory cells of the anterior pituitary lobe are known as lactotrophs.
Prolactinoma arises from these lactotrophs.
Lactotrophs are involved in the secretion of prolactin hormone.
The increase in the amount of these cells (clonal expansion) leads to over production of prolactin, causing hyperprolactinemia.
Prolactin levels are usually directly proportionate to the size of the tumor.
Size less than 1 cm: <200 ng/ml of prolactin
Size of 1cm to 2 cm: 200 to 1000 ng/ml of prolactin.
Size>2cm:>1000 ng/ml.
Dopamine (prolactin inhibiting factor) from the hypothalamus has an inhibitory influence on prolactin secretion.
Hyperprolactinemia can also occur when this mechanism is disrupted by any factor.

Diagnosis
Clinical features
Clinical presentation of prolactinoma in females
Changes in menstruation which are not related to menopause. This includes irregular periods (menstruation) or no periods (amenorrhea).
Milky discharge from nipples when the woman is not pregnant or breast feeding (galactorrhea).
Loss of interest in sex.
Infertility.
Vaginal atrophy which can lead to pain while having penetrative sex.
Decreased bone mineral density.
