 The image is about acromegaly, a hormonal disorder that happens as a result of the excess production of the growth hormone by the pituitary gland. Increased growth hormone production leads to increase in bone size. Increased bone size leads to increased height in childhood, a condition which is known as gigantism.
The main cause of acromegaly is a benign (non-cancerous) tumor (adenoma) developed in the pituitary gland (Somatotropinomas). Unbridled production of growth hormone by the tumor causes the signs and symptoms of acromegaly.
Acromegaly occurs in approximately 50 to 70 people per million in the world. Acromegaly is more common when compared to that of gigantism. Acromegaly affects males and females in equal numbers. Acromegaly is most often diagnosed in middle-aged adults even though symptoms can appear at any age.
Acromegaly is believed to be caused by growth hormone (GH) secreting adenomas. There are generally two kinds of adenomas that secrete GH. They are: Microadenomas and Macroadenomas. The pituitary adenoma leads to the excessive secretion of the growth hormone/GH from the somatotroph cells. GH in normal conditions is secreted and stored in the anterior pituitary gland particularly in the somatotroph cells. In pituitary adenomas, a mutation caused in the alpha sub-unit of the guanine nucleotide stimulatory protein is responsible for the increased growth hormone secretion.
Growth hormone functions by binding to the glycoprotein receptor. This stimulates the proteins and they start a process known as signal transduction and transcription.
GH can be stimulated by: Ghrelin and Growth hormone releasing hormone (GHRH). GH secretion is inhibited by: Somatostatin and Insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1).
Diagnosing acromegaly involves 2 key blood tests:
• Testing Insulin-like Growth Factor-1 (IGF-1)
• Oral Glucose Tolerance Test (OGTT)
Imaging tests are also done to confirm acromegaly. Almost 95% of acromegaly cases are caused by a pituitary tumor. Hence, the doctor will most likely take an MRI scan of the pituitary gland. The MRI shows the exact location and size of the tumor.
