 The image is about Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD). It starts with an introduction to ASD, then talks about the clinical features, diagnosis, and DSM-5 criteria for ASD. Finally, it provides some information on the prognosis and treatment of ASD.

Introduction
Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a neurobiological disorder with onset in early childhood (<age 3). More males than females (4:1). Comorbidity is common (>70%). Red flags should be immediately identified, and further evaluations should be done. There are no diagnostic biomarkers for ASD.

Clinical Features of Autism
Lack of eye contact
Unusual and monotonous games
Reject social touch
Inappropriate laughter
Repetition of words and phrases
Underdeveloped sense of danger
Reduced sensitivity to pain
Difficulties in communication
Social communication and interaction difficulties:
Deficits in nonverbal communication, such as eye contact, facial expressions, and body language
Challenges in developing and maintaining relationships with peers
Difficulty understanding social cues and norms
Struggles with sharing emotions, interests, and affect
Limited initiation and response to social interactions
Restricted and repetitive patterns of behavior, interests, or activities:
Stereotyped or repetitive motor movements, such as hand-flapping, rocking, or spinning
Insistence on sameness, inflexible adherence to routines, and resistance to change
Highly restricted, fixated interests that may be abnormal in intensity or focus
Sensory sensitivities, such as being overly sensitive or unresponsive to certain sounds, textures, or lights
Language and speech difficulties:
Delayed speech and language development
Echolalia (repeating words or phrases)
Monotonous or atypical tone of voice
Difficulty engaging in conversation or understanding pragmatic language use
Cognitive differences:
Uneven intellectual development, with some areas of strength and others of weakness
Potential for high cognitive functioning or intellectual disability, depending on the individual

Diagnosis
The following delays warrant an immediate evaluation:
By 6 months: No big smiles or joyful expressions.
By 9 months: No back-and-forth sharing of sounds, smiles, or other facial expressions.
By 12 months: Lack of response to name.
By 12 months: No babbling or "baby talk".
By 12 months: No back-and-forth gestures, such as pointing, showing, reaching, or waving.
By 16 months: No spoken words.
By 24 months: No meaningful two-word phrases that do not involve imitating or repeating.
Early screening:
Early intervention improves outcomes
May miss HFA and regression
Tools for age<16-18 months not validated
May increase parental anxiety
Late screening:
Better sensitivity and specificity
Misses on early intervention

Diagnostic Criteria
DSM-5 Criteria for Autism Spectrum Disorder
Currently, or by history, must meet criteria A,B,C and D
A. Persistent deficits in social communication and social interaction across contexts, not accounted for by general developmental delays, and manifest by all 3 of the following:
Deficits in social - emotional reciprocity
Deficits in nonverbal communicative behaviors used for
