 Malaria index
Annual Parasite incidence (API) is the number of confirmed cases per 1000 population in one year

Investigations
All clinically suspected malaria cases require laboratory examination and confirmation.
History Collection
Physical Examination
M.P (Malaria Parasite) Test
The Peripheral Smear
Bone Marrow Smear
CBC, TC, DC

Differential diagnosis for uncomplicated malaria
Upper respiratory tract infection (Pharyngitis, tonsillitis, ear infection), pneumonia, measles, dengue, influenza, typhoid fever.
Remember that the patient may be suffering from more than one illness.
Meningitis, otitis media (ear infection), tuberculosis, hypoglycemia.

Malaria Management
Management of Malaria includes Following Measures:
Early Detection & Early Treatment
Mosquito Control Measures

Early Detection
Early Detection of Fever Cases in the Community by House to House Visit by the Health Workers in Every 15 Days
Early Administration of Chloroquine (CHQ) to All Fevers
Collection of Blood Films (Thick & Thin) from Fever Cases & Laboratory Examinations for Malaria Parasite
Administration of Medical Treatment to All Positive Cases of Malaria
Refer Table 80.1

Prevention and control
Primary prevention
Environmental improvement: Prevent mosquito breeding by removing water collections
Anti mosquito measures
mosquito rests – spray DDT on walls where mosquito breeds
Anti larval measures – spray larvicide in the water where mosquito breeds
Prevent mosquito bites by using mosquito nets
Chemoprophylaxis - Chloroquine
Secondary prevention
Early diagnosis and treatment
To prevent complications especially cerebral malaria
To prevent morbidity due to malaria

Community
Types
Chemoprophylaxis
(Suppressive treatment)
Therapeutic treatment
Gametocidal treatment
Radical treatment (To prevent relapse)
Targets
Sporozoites before they infect hepatocytes
Merozoites in Erythrocytic phase
Gametocytes
Hypnozoites in liver
Used in Case
Travellers travelling to countries prone to endemic malaria
Active infection
Prevents creatin of resistant forms and spread of disease
Primaquine for P. falciparum, Chloroquine for all other P. vivax and P. ovale infections
Drugs
Primaquine
Chloroquine
Mefloquine
Doxycycline
Doxycyclin
Chloroquine
Mefloquine
Primaquine
Table 80.1

The image is a table that summarizes the different types of malaria drugs, their targets, and their uses. The drugs are divided into four categories: chemoprophylaxis, therapeutic treatment, gametocidal treatment, and radical treatment.

Chemoprophylaxis is used to prevent malaria in people who are traveling to areas where the disease is common. The drugs used for chemoprophylaxis are primaquine and chloroquine.

Therapeutic treatment is used to treat people who are already infected with malaria. The drugs used for therapeutic treatment are chloroquine, mefloquine, and doxycycline.

Gametocidal treatment is used to kill the gametocytes, which are the sexual forms of the malaria parasite. The drugs used for gametocidal treatment are primaquine and chloroquine.

Radical treatment is used to kill all of the malaria parasites in the body, including the hypnozoites, which are the dormant forms of the parasite. The drugs used for radical treatment are primaquine and chloroquine.
