 Diagnosis
Clinical Features
Normal Vertebrae
Vertebrae After Osteoporosis
Osteoporosis
Osteoporosis is generally asymptomatic.
Hence, sometimes it is also called silent disease.
The following signs should be taken into concern whatsoever:
• Change in posture: Stooping or bending forward
o Loss of height: Getting shorter by an inch or more than an inch
o Bone fractures
O Shortness of breath: Which is caused due to decreased lung capacity which is a result of disc compression.
O Pain in the lower back
Investigations
• Routine screening:
○ Routine screening is advised for individuals especially at risk of developing osteoporosis like:
1. Women over an age of 65
2. Women of any age who have an increased chance of developing osteoporosis.
○ Physical examination which includes checking of:
→ Change in body posture
→ Balance and gait (the way the individual walks) is checked
→ Loss of height and weight
→ Muscle strength (Checking the patient's ability to stand from a sitting position without using arms for support)
• Testing bone mineral density (BMD):
→ BMD is usually tested at specific bone areas like in the spine or hip.
→ It can be used to understand the following factors:
1. Diagnose osteoporosis
2. Detecting low bone density before the development of osteoporosis
3. To monitor the efficiency and effectiveness of the current treatment followed by the patient.
4. For predicting the risk of any future fractures
→ The most common test for measuring BMD is dual-energy-X-ray-absorptiometry (DXA).
→ It is a quick, noninvasive and rather painless test.
→ BMD measurement using DXA is considered as the most reliable way to diagnose osteoporosis and predict any future fractures that is common among patients with osteoporosis.
o Conventional radiography:
→The main radiographic features of generalized osteoporosis are the following:
1. Cortical thinning
2. Increased radiolucency
→ One of the most frequent complications of osteoporosis is spinal fracture.
→ This can be diagnosed and also follow-up can be done to a huge extend with the help of spinal radiography.
→ Vertebral height can be measured by using plain-film-X-rays.
→ Conventional radiography (CT and MRI) can be helpful in diagnosing and detecting the complications of osteopenia (Reduced bone mass before development of osteoporosis).
→ Radiography cannot detect the early onset of bone loss.
→ It can only be of any use if a considerable amount of bone loss has taken place.
Important Information
Chemical biomarkers are helpful in detecting bone degradation or loss.
An enzyme called cathepsin K breaks down an important constituent of the bone called type-I-collagen.
The resulting fragment is known as neoepitope.
• This can be detected by prepared antibodies.
This is considered as a method to diagnose osteoporosis.
Management
• The treatment of osteoporosis aims to slow down or cease the bone degradation and to prevent fractures.
Management options include:
○ Proper nutrition
• Exercise
o Lifestyle changes
○ Prevention of fractures rench pathologist Jean Lobstein coined the term "osteoporosis".
