 The image is a table that summarizes the stages of kidney cancer. The table has four columns, with the first column listing the stage of the cancer, the second column describing the size of the tumor, the third column describing the spread of the cancer, and the fourth column listing the treatment options.
Stage I: The cancer is only within the kidney and has not spread. The cancer is less than 7 cm in size. If the cancer can be removed it is most likely to be cured with surgery. 9 out of 10 people will be alive and free of cancer at five years after an operation.
Stage II: The cancer is larger than 7 cm but is still confined to the kidney and has not spread outside of the kidney. Surgery is a good treatment option. The five-year survival rate is still very high after surgery for stage 2 kidney cancer.
Stage III: The kidney cancer has moved nearby outside the kidney, but has not spread to distant organs. For example, the cancer might have spread into the fat around the kidney, into the blood vessel coming out of the kidney, or into lymph nodes near the kidney. Ask your doctor about all treatment options and clinical trials.
Stage IV: The kidney cancer has spread widely outside the kidney; to the abdominal cavity, to the adrenal glands. To distant lymph nodes or to other organs, such as the lungs, liver, bones, or brain. Ask your doctor about all treatment options and clinical trials.
There is also a table that summarizes the treatments for advanced and recurrent kidney cancer. The table has three columns, with the first column listing the type of treatment, the second column describing the treatment, and the third column listing the goal of the treatment.
Surgery: If cancer cannot be fully removed, surgeons try to remove as much part of the tumor as possible.
Targeted therapy: It focuses on specific abnormalities present within the cancer cells. Targeted drug treatments cause cancer cells to die by blocking these abnormalities.
Immunotherapy: Immunotherapy uses the individual's immune system to fight cancer. The immune system fails to attack the cancer cells because of the proteins produced by the cancer cells. Immunotherapy works by blocking or interfering with this process.
Radiation therapy: It is used to reduce or control the symptoms of kidney cancer.
Clinical trials: Clinical trials are the research studies that allow trial of the latest inventions in kidney cancer treatment.
