 Definition
Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS) is the most common endocrine disorder that affects women all over the world. It is a condition in which the ovaries produce abnormal amount of androgens. The name Polycystic Ovary Syndrome suggests the numerous small cysts (Fluid filled sacs) that form in the ovaries. Cysts though may not be present in all women suffering from PCOS. PCOS causes infertility and also increases the risk of developing diabetes and heart disease. But it is a condition which can often be managed with lifestyle changes. It includes a group of symptoms which may vary from one woman to the other. It can occur at any age and usually starts during puberty or in the early-to-mid-twenties.

Etiology
The exact cause of PCOS is not known. The factors that are believed to play a role are discussed below.

Insulin Resistance
If the cells in our body become insulin resistant, it leads to the over production of the same in order to bring down the blood sugar level. Increased production of insulin might cause increased androgen (male sex hormone) production. This will affect the ovulation process. Signs of insulin resistance include the following:
Dark, velvety patches of skin (On the lower part of neck, armpits, groin or lower part of the breasts).
Increase in appetite
Weight gain

Low-grade inflammation
The response of WBCs in which they produce certain substances as a response to infection or injury is known as low-grade inflammation. People with PCOS have a long-term, low-grade inflammation that can cause the polycystic ovaries to produce androgens. This can cause heart problems and blood vessel problems.

Heredity
Studies suggests that certain genes might be linked to PCOS. Family history of PCOS plays a role in the developing of PCOS.

Excess androgen
With PCOS, androgen production by the ovaries increases manifold. This interferes with ovulation process. As a result, eggs are not developed on a regular basis. They are also not released from the follicles. Excess androgen in the body can also lead to hirsutism and acne.

Epidemiology
4 to 20% of women of child bearing age have PCOS. It is more prevalent in urban areas than in rural areas. Most women diagnose that they have PCOS in their 20s and 30s, when they face trouble conceiving. But PCOS can happen at any age after puberty. Studies show that, the prevalence of PCOS is most common among South Asians. The prevalence of PCOS in India is between 8.2% and 22.5%.
