 Dacryostenosis and Dacryocystitis

Introduction
Dacryostenosis refers to the blockage of the lacrimal drainage system, while dacryocystitis refers to the infection of the lacrimal sac.

Symptoms of Lacrimal Blockage
The two main symptoms of lacrimal blockage are epiphora (overflow of tears) and discharge.

On Examination
Meniscus Height of the Tear
The height of the lower meniscus of the tear film is increased in dacryostenosis. Normally, the height of the lower meniscus is 0.2-0.4 mm, but in cases of dacryostenosis, it can increase up to 0.6 mm due to drainage blockage.

Dacryocystitis
Dacryocystitis refers to the inflammation of the lacrimal sac.

Classification
Dacryocystitis can be classified into congenital and acquired forms. Congenital dacryocystitis is present at birth, while acquired dacryocystitis develops later in life. Acquired dacryocystitis can be further classified into acute and chronic forms.

Congenital Dacryocystitis
Congenital dacryocystitis is caused by the non-canalization of the nasolacrimal duct (NLD) just above the valve of Hasner. This leads to the accumulation of tears and mucus in the lacrimal sac, which can result in infection and inflammation.

Symptoms
The main symptom of congenital dacryocystitis is epiphora, which is the overflow of tears from the eyes. The tears may be mucopurulent in nature due to the presence of infection.

Treatment
The treatment of congenital dacryocystitis depends on the age of the patient. For patients less than 9 months of age, Criggler's massage is recommended. Criggler's massage involves applying gentle pressure to the lacrimal sac area to help clear the obstruction. For patients older than 9 months, probing of the nasolacrimal duct is usually performed. Probing involves inserting a thin wire into the duct to clear the obstruction. In some cases, surgery may be necessary to create a new opening between the lacrimal sac and the nose. This procedure is known as dacryocystorhinostomy (DCR).

Acquired Dacryocystitis
Acquired dacryocystitis can be caused by a variety of factors, including infection, inflammation, or trauma. The most common cause of acquired dacryocystitis is bacterial infection, which can occur when bacteria enter the lacrimal sac through the nasolacrimal duct. Other causes of acquired dacryocystitis include allergic reactions, autoimmune disorders, and tumors.

Symptoms
The symptoms of acquired dacryocystitis are similar to those of congenital dacryocystitis, including epiphora, mucopurulent discharge, and redness and swelling of the lacrimal sac area.

Treatment
The treatment of acquired dacryocystitis depends on the underlying cause. In cases of bacterial infection, antibiotics are usually prescribed. In some cases, surgery may be necessary to clear the obstruction or to create a new opening between the lacrimal sac and the nose.
