 Definition
Hyperthyroidism is the condition when the thyroid gland produces and secretes excess of thyroid hormone.
The condition that occurs as a result of the excessive thyroid hormone production is known as Thyrotoxicosis. This includes hyperthyroidism.
This condition is also known as overactive thyroid.
Every part of the body's metabolism is controlled by the hormones produced by the thyroid gland.
Body metabolism speeds up as a result of hyperthyroidism which can lead to symptoms such as weight loss, hand tremors and rapid and irregular heartbeat.
Different treatment options are available for treating hyperthyroidism and sometimes, it so happens that it may improve without medication or any other treatment methods.
Regular follow up visits are recommended with the health care providers to monitor and analyze the condition of the individual, post the diagnosis of hyperthyroidism.
Etiology
The causes of overactive thyroid (hyperthyroidism) are the following:
Grave's Disease
Studies show that, about 3 out of every 4 people suffering from hyperthyroidism suffer from Grave's disease.
Grave's disease is an autoimmune condition as a result of which your immune system attacks your thyroid which causes it to be overactive and produce excess of thyroid hormone.
Cause of Grave's disease is not known yet. But it is understood that, smoking is likely to increase the risk.
It mostly affects young and middle-aged women.
Thyroid Nodules
Lumps or nodules in the thyroid gland can cause it to be overactive.
These benign nodules are non-cancerous and may contain thyroid tissue.
This can lead to excess production of the thyroid hormones.
This can lead to excess production of the thyroid hormones.
Medicine
Increase in the level of iodine in the body can lead to overproduction of thyroid hormone.
Iodine levels in the body can sometimes increase as a result of taking certain medications.
Amiodarone (Which helps to control irregular heart beat or arrhythmia) is one the such medicine.
One the intake of these medications is stopped; the thyroid hormone usually gets back to normal.
Apart from the above, there are other causes that can lead to hyperthyroidism:
High level of HCG: Can happen in early pregnancy, multiple pregnancy or a molar pregnancy.
Pituitary adenoma: It is a benign tumor in the pituitary gland.
Thyroiditis: Inflammation of the thyroid gland can lead to excess production of thyroid gland.
Thyroid carcinoma: Production of thyroid hormones are rarely affected by a thyroid tumor.
Toxic multinodular goiter.
Struma ovarii: It is a rare form of monodermal teratoma that mostly contains thyroid tissue. This can also lead to hyperthyroidism.
Most common causes of hyperthyroidism by age:
Incidence (per 100,000)
Hyperthyroidism
200
Toxic multinodular goiter
150
100
Solitary
toxic
adenoma
Grave's disease
50
10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90
Age (years)
Risk factors usually include the following:
Family history of thyroid disease (Particularly Grave's disease).
A personal history of certain chronic diseases such as:
Pernicious anemia
Primary adrenal insufficiency
Hyperthyroidism can also occur as a result of any recent pregnancy which elevates the risk of thyroiditis.
Epidemiology
It mostly occurs to the elderly (> 60 years).
The cause for this kind of nodule formation is not known.
Overall incidence of hyperthyroidism: Between 0.5 to 1.3% and increases 4 to 5% in older women.
The prevalence of hyperthyroidism in women: Between 0.5 to 2%.
It is 10 times more common in women than in men.
Hyperthyroidism is more common among smokers.
