 congenital cataract
Definition: It is the opacity of the lens present at birth.
This can be associated with remnants of hilar tissues known as Mittendorf dots.
An onion ring appearance is seen.

Types of congenital cataract
1. Nuclear cataract
2. Sutural cataract
3. Coronary cataract
4. Lamellar cataract
5. Total congenital cataract

Clinical features
The child presents with congenital cataracts:
Leukocoria: It is also known as the white eye reflex.

Investigation:
First a detailed eye examination is to be done.
A scan is done anterior chamber to check for IOL power and axial length
Bscan is done for posterior chamber
Then the investigation is divided into two types:
Ocular: Ascan and B scan are done.
Systemic: It is not done in unilateral cataracts or bilateral cataracts with positive family history. It is done to find other causes of cataracts. This can be of two types:
Serum analysis: In this glucose level, galactokinase level, calcium, phosphorus levels, and TORCHS titre levels are checked.
Urine analysis:
Reducing substance in the urine then diagnosis is galactosemia.
Amino acids in the urine indicate Lewis's syndrome.
If sediments are detected in the urine, then it is Fabry's disease.
Detection of copper in the urine indicated Wilson's disease (Familial hemorrhagic Nephritis).

Important Information
Pre-operative Assessment
Systemic Condition
Sugar Level: DM (Diabetes mellitus).
Hypertension: Make the blood pressure normal for the surgery.
Respiratory System: The patient should not have a cough or upper respiratory infections because if the patient coughs after or during the surgery, it will be harmful.
History of Myocardial infarction or Stroke: Surgeons have to wait for 4-6 months.
If the patient has epilepsy.
A case of Parkinson's disease.

Treatment of the Cataract
There is no medical treatment or prevention of cataracts. The only option is surgery. These surgeries are explained in detail below at
ICCE: Intracapsular cataract extraction, the capsule is removed along with the lens.
ECCE: Extracapsular cataract extraction, the capsule is not removed.
