 Image 1
Certain other medicines can also help treat or prevent many complications that may occur as a part of CKD.
High blood pressure medications:
Maintaining normal blood pressure is of paramount importance to protect the kidneys from undergoing any damage.
People with kidney disease should maintain their blood pressure below 140/90mmHg.
In the case of diabetic patients, blood pressure should be maintained below 130/80mmHg.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors are often the most widely used blood pressure medicine.
Examples of ACE inhibitors are:
Ramipril
Enalapril
Lisinopril
The side effects of ACE inhibitors are the following:
Dizziness
Persistent cough
Headaches
Tiredness and weakness
Angiotensin-II receptor blocker (ARB) is used if the above side effects become severe or troublesome.
Medication to be taken for high albumin to creatinine (ACR) ratio or diabetes:
In the case of type 2 diabetes or high albumin to creatinine ratio (ACR), dapagliflozin and medicines for high blood pressure are used.
Dapagliflozin can help lower the blood sugar level and reduce the damage to your kidneys.
Medications for anaemia:
Recombinant human erythropoietin
Medications to be taken to manage high cholesterol:
CKD patients are at risk of cardiovascular disease, including heart attack and stroke.
Statins are prescribed to reduce the risk of developing cardiovascular disease.
Examples of statins include:
Simvastatin
Atorvastatin
Side effects of statins include:
Feeling sick
Muscle and joint pain
Constipation or diarrhoea
Headaches
Dialysis
Kidneys will cease to function when CKD reaches an advanced stage.
This affects a small proportion of people who are suffering from CKD.
This happens gradually.
Indications for dialysis: AEIOU
A: Acid-base disorders
E: Electrolyte disorders (hyperkalaemia mainly)
I: Intoxications
O: Fluid Overload
U: Uraemia
Dialysis is of two types:
Haemodialysis: In this method, an external machine filters the blood diverted into it before being returned to the body. It is usually performed 3 times a week.
Peritoneal dialysis: Dialysis fluid is pumped into space inside one's stomach to draw out waste from the blood as it passes through the vessels lining the inside of the stomach. It is performed at home several times a day or overnight.
Kidney transplant
A kidney transplant is a management option for people with severely damaged kidneys.
It is the most effective management option for advanced kidney disease.
Immunosuppressants are to be taken for the rest of one's life to stop the body from attacking the donor organ.
Dialysis is performed while waiting for a kidney transplant or until a suitable donor is found.
About 90% of transplants still function after 5 to 10 years post-transplantation.
Summary of management of CKD
Refer Flow Chart 48.2
Additional Information
Supportive treatment
Supportive treatment is given if kidney transplantation cannot be performed for certain people (for various reasons, such as those suffering from other illnesses or who are unlikely to benefit from the procedure).
The aim is to control the symptoms of kidney failure.
Supportive treatment includes:
Medical care
Psychological care
Practical care (for both the person and their family)
Did You Know?
Dog species such as Bernese Mountain dogs, miniature schnauzers and boxers are at the highest risk of CKD among all other dog species.
Cases in which the exact cause of CKD is unknown are called chronic kidney disease of unknown aetiology.
CKD is the 8th largest cause of in-hospital mortality in Sri Lanka.
