 The incidence of renal cell carcinoma varies from region to region worldwide. Globally, there are over 400,000 new cases of renal cell carcinoma and over 170,000 deaths due to kidney cancer. RCC is more common in the sixth to eighth decade of life, with a median age at diagnosis around 64. RCC is a rare disorder among children. Men are mostly affected by kidney cancer. From the table above, it can be understood that kidney cancer is a disease mostly seen among the adult population. Kidney cancer is very uncommon among those who are younger than 45 years. Kidney cancer is the 10 most common cancer among men and women. The lifetime risk of developing kidney cancer among men: 1 in 46 (2.02%). The lifetime risk of developing kidney cancer among women: 1 in 80 (1,03%) Pathophysiology Kidney cancer originates in two principal locations in the kidney. They are: Renal cell carcinoma is associated with several paraneoplastic syndromes. These are shown below: Paraneoplastic Syndromes in Renal Cell Carcinoma Endocrine Hypercalcemia Hypertension Polycythemia Nonmetastatic hepatic dysfunction Galactorrhea Nonendocrine Amyloidosis Anemia Neuromyopathies Vasculopathy Nephropathy Cushing's syndrome Coagulopathy Alteratins in glucose metabolism Prostaglandin elevation Transitional cell cancer Transitional cell carcinomas are also known as urothelial carcinomas. Transitional epithelium is the specialized mucous membrane that lines: The urinary bladder The lower part of the kidneys The ureters The proximal urethra Most carcinomas in the above parts of the renal system are transitional cell carcinomas. The genetic mutations involved in the pathogenesis of bladder cancer include: HRAS mutation Rb1 PTEN/MMAC1 mutation NAT2 slow acetylator phenotype GSTM1 null phenotype Industrial carcinogens associated with transitional cell carcinomas are: Aromatic amines Aniline dyes Aldehydes Renal sarcoma This is the type of kidney cancer that develops in the soft tissue of the kidney: Capsule (the thin layer of connective tissue surrounding the kidney) Surrounding fat
