 The image is about Grave's disease. It is an autoimmune disorder that causes the thyroid gland to produce too much thyroid hormone. This can lead to a number of symptoms, including weight loss, anxiety, and increased heart rate.

The image explains the symptoms, diagnosis, and treatment of Grave's disease. It also includes a table that summarizes the different treatment options.

The text on the image is as follows:

Radioactive iodine uptake (RAIU) and scan.
It measures the amount of iodine absorbed by the thyroid gland.
RAIU involves the intake of an iodine pill called radioactive tracer 4 to 6 hours before the first thyroid gland scan.
The scan is repeated after 24 hours.
Other tests may include:
CT scan
MRI
Ultrasound of the eye and eye sockets

Important Information
COMPLICATIONS OF GRAVE'S DISEASE
Pregnancy issues: Such as miscarriage, preterm birth, foetal thyroid dysfunction, poor foetal growth, maternal heart failure and preeclampsia.
Heart disorders
Thyroid storm: Also known as accelerated hyperthyroidism or thyrotoxic crisis. Likely to happen when severe hyperthyroidism is left untreated and can cause effects such as sweating, vomiting, diarrhoea, delirium, seizures, irregular heartbeat, jaundice etc.
Brittle bones

Treatment
Treatments of Grave's disease include:
Beta-blockers
Beta-blockers such as propranolol and metoprolol are considered as the first line treatment of Grave's disease.
These medications protect the heart until other hyperthyroidism treatments take effect.
Beta-blockers does not cease thyroid hormone production.
Antithyroid medications
Examples of antithyroid medications are methimazole and propylthiouracil.
They cease the thyroid hormone production.
Skin rashes and low WBC count are rare side effects of these medications.
Liver disease may also occur as a side effect even though rarely.
Radioiodine therapy
Basedow-Hyperthyreose
Tc-Uptake 16%
250 Gy (30 mCi) + Prednison
This management method involves the intake of a radioactive iodine pill.
Thyroid gland cells are destroyed over a period of 2 to 3 months.
Thus, the thyroid gland shrinks gradually, decreasing the production of thyroid hormones as a result.
The rest of the body other than the thyroid gland is not affected in radioactive iodine therapy.
Surgery
All or part of the thyroid gland is removed as a part of thyroidectomy.
Hypothyroidism may occur post thyroidectomy in some people which can be dealt with by thyroid replacement.

Prognosis
The prognosis of Grave's disease is generally good.
People who undergo treatment for Grave's disease (Radioactive iodine or thyroidectomy) will eventually develop hypothyroidism.
Antithyroid drugs are usually taken lifelong for grave's disease.

Did You Know?
Grave's disease is named as such as the name of the Irish doctor Robert James Graves was the one who described a case of goiter with exophthalmos in 1835.
Grave's disease has also been called exophthalmic goiter.
Former President George HW Bush and Barbara Bush were diagnosed with Grave's disease.
