 TYPHOID

Introduction
Bacterial enteric fever is endemic in most developing countries or infected contaminated food or water. Typhoid fever is a disease of Salmonella typhi. It is mainly a problem in Asia, Latin America, and parts of Africa. Reservoir of Salmonella typhi is man. It is transmitted by ingestion of S. enterica, subspecies enterica serovar Typhi by water, contaminated by feces of patients or carriers. 
It is a gram-negative, non spore forming organism. 
LPS=lipopolysaccharide antigen 'O' antigen
Flagella 'H' antigen

Pathogenesis
First week: 
1. Bacteria enter through the mouth
2. Reach the Peyer's patches in the distal ileum
3. Ulceration of the payer's patches
4. Regional enteritis

Second week of enteric fever
1. Widespread involvement
2. Foci of necrosis in liver, spleen, and bone marrow
3. Chronic carrier state

Third week
1. Intestinal bleeding
2. Intestinal perforation
3. Colonization in gallbladder and other sites
4. Chronic jones may involve other sites

Causes
Caused by the bacterium Salmonella Typhi. Infection is caused by inadequate water and sanitation. 

Contact with an acute case or typhoid fever. 
Eating food or drinking beverages that have been contaminated with Salmonella enterica serotype Typhimurium or other salmonella bacteria, cause food poisoning and diarrhea. 

Incubation Period
But incubation period may be as short as 3 days. It may be as long as thus depending on the dose of bacilli ingested. 

Symptoms
High-grade fever
Headache
Weakness
Dry cough
Constipation
Rashes

Mode Of The Transmission
Fecal-oral route (Rare)
Source of Infection: Faces and urine of the cases and carriers
Secondary Sources: Contaminated water, food, and fingers

There is no evidence that typhoid bacilli are excreted in sputum or milk. 

Complications
Intestinal hemorrhage is manifested by the sudden drop in temperature and stool. 
Fresh blood in stool
Less frequent complications are occurring during the third week. 
Intestinal perforation, thrombocytopenia, urinary retention, psychosis, cholecystitis, marrow and osteomyelitis. 

Diagnosis
Blood, bone marrow, stool/ urine culture test
Widal agglutination test
Slide test
Antimicrobial susceptibility testing

Management
The aim of management is to kill the organism and correct fluid and electrolyte imbalance. 
Most patients are treated at home. Nursing care, adequate nutrition, fluid/electrolytes, good nursing care.
