 The image is a table that summarizes the laboratory tests used in the diagnosis of anemia. The table is divided into three sections: complete blood count (CBC), reticulocyte count, and iron supply studies.

The CBC is used to measure the number of red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets in the blood. It can also be used to measure the hemoglobin level and hematocrit. The reticulocyte count is used to measure the number of young red blood cells in the blood. The iron supply studies are used to measure the levels of iron in the blood.

Anemia is a condition in which the body does not have enough red blood cells to carry oxygen to the tissues. This can cause a variety of symptoms, including fatigue, weakness, shortness of breath, and dizziness. Anemia can be caused by a variety of factors, including iron deficiency, vitamin B12 deficiency, and cancer.

The laboratory tests in the image can be used to help diagnose anemia and determine the cause. The CBC can be used to measure the number of red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets in the blood. It can also be used to measure the hemoglobin level and hematocrit. The reticulocyte count can be used to measure the number of young red blood cells in the blood. The iron supply studies can be used to measure the levels of iron in the blood.

The flow chart in the image summarizes the steps involved in the diagnosis of anemia. The first step is to perform a CBC. If the CBC is normal, then no further testing is necessary. If the CBC is abnormal, then further testing is needed to determine the cause of the anemia. The next step is to perform a reticulocyte count. If the reticulocyte count is normal, then the anemia is likely due to a chronic condition. If the reticulocyte count is high, then the anemia is likely due to an acute condition. The next step is to perform iron supply studies. If the iron supply studies are normal, then the anemia is likely not due to iron deficiency. If the iron supply studies are abnormal, then the anemia is likely due to iron deficiency.
