 Definition
Polycystic kidney disease (PKD) is a genetic condition characterized by the growth of numerous cysts (fluid-filled sacs) in the kidneys.
The kidneys become larger as the size of the cysts increases.
Thus, the kidneys malfunction, and eventually, kidney failure due to the progressive loss of kidney function.
Cysts can also be formed in the liver as a result of PKD.
PKD has two inherited forms. They are:
Autosomal dominant (or adult) PKD:
It is the most common form of PKD.
The symptoms usually develop between 30 to 40 years of age.
The cysts start developing during childhood but symptoms do not appear until adulthood as the surrounding normal kidney gets compressed and damaged.
If any one of the parents carries the disease gene, the child has a 50/50 chance of inheriting the disease.
Autosomal recessive PKD:
It is a rare form of PKD.
Symptoms of autosomal recessive PKD start from childhood and even before birth.
These cysts can form on the outside or inside of the kidney.
They are termed 'simple cysts'.
These cysts are benign and are not considered fatal.
Complex renal cysts can interfere with kidney function.
Aetiology
Autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) and autosomal recessive polycystic kidney disease (ARPKD) have their genetic cause.
Autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) causes:
The genes that are affected in ADPKD are:
PKD1 (accounts for 85% of the cases)
PKD2 (accounts for 15% of the cases)
Both genes exhibit the same signs and symptoms.
The symptoms are more severe in the case of PKD1.
A child has a 50% chance of developing ADPKD if one of their parents has the faulty PKD1 or PKD2 gene.
Autosomal recessive polycystic kidney disease (ARPKD) causes:
It is a comparatively rare kidney disease.
The child will only develop ARPKD if both parents carry the faulty gene.
The problems usually start at a much early age.
Epidemiology
PKD affects males and females equally.
Race, age, ethnicity, etc., do not influence the individual's risk of developing the disorder.
It has a reported prevalence of 1:1000.
PKD is considered the cause of nearly 10% of all end-stage renal diseases.
PKD occurs in some animals apart from humans.
Today, ARPKD occurs in one in 25,000 children worldwide.
Pathophysiology
Polycystin-1 (PKD1 protein) and polycystin-2 (PKD2 protein) belong to a subfamily of transient receptor potential (TRP) channels.
The inactivation of PKD1 is the determining factor of the extent of the development of the disease.
PKD2 is found in the following locations:
Endoplasmic reticulum
Plasma membrane in spindles in cell division and primary cilium
The PC1 interacts with the PC2 and helps in the maturation of PC2. This happens both ways.
Apart from PC2, PC1 also interacts with additional calcium channel proteins.
Liver cysts originate due to the excessive proliferation and dilation of biliary ductules and peribiliary glands.
