 Hypertension is a common and early complication of autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD). The prevalence of hypertension in ADPKD is 60-80%, and it is usually diagnosed in the fourth or fifth decade of life. Hypertension in ADPKD is associated with increased cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. The pathogenesis of hypertension in ADPKD is multifactorial and includes activation of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system, increased sympathetic nervous system activity, and endothelial dysfunction.

The clinical features of ADPKD are variable, but the most common is the development of renal cysts. These cysts can cause pain, flank pain, and a feeling of fullness in the abdomen. Other clinical features of ADPKD include hypertension, proteinuria, hematuria, and urinary tract infections.

The diagnosis of ADPKD is based on the presence of renal cysts and a family history of the disease. Imaging studies, such as ultrasound and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), can be used to confirm the diagnosis.

The treatment of hypertension in ADPKD is similar to the treatment of hypertension in other patient populations. Blood pressure goals should be individualized, but a target blood pressure of <140/90 mm Hg is generally recommended. Treatment options include lifestyle modifications, such as weight loss, exercise, and dietary changes, as well as medications, such as angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors or angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs).

The prognosis of ADPKD is variable, but most patients with the disease will eventually develop kidney failure. The median age of onset of kidney failure is 50-60 years. Kidney failure can be treated with dialysis or kidney transplantation.

Autosomal recessive polycystic kidney disease (ARPKD) is a rare inherited kidney disease that is characterized by the development of renal cysts. ARPKD is usually diagnosed in childhood, and it is more severe than ADPKD. The clinical features of ARPKD include hypertension, proteinuria, hematuria, and urinary tract infections. The treatment of ARPKD is similar to the treatment of ADPKD, but kidney failure usually develops earlier in the course of the disease.

The symptoms of ARPKD among children include:
Hypertension
Back and side pain
Varicose veins
Urinary tract infections
Being short or weight for their age

Complications
PKD can affect other organs besides the kidney, such as:
Liver
Pancreas
Spleen
Ovaries
Large bowel
PKD can also affect the brain (causing berry aneurysm) and the heart (causing the valves to become floppy). Floppy valves can cause a heart murmur in some patients (mitral valve prolapse and aortic regurgitation).
Colonic diverticula and abdominal wall hernias may develop.
About half of the people with PKD will have kidney failure by age 60.
About 60% of the patients will have kidney failure by age 70, which can be managed through dialysis or a kidney transplant.
The groups of people at increased risk of kidney failure include:
Patients with hypertension
Men
Patients with protein or blood present in their urine
Women with hypertension who have had 3 or more pregnancies.

Additional Information
In the early stages of ADPKD, people have few or no symptoms.
They only receive a diagnosis between 30 to 50 years if they are experiencing any complications.
ARPKD is rarer than ADPKD, but it can be diagnosed even before the birth of the child.
Fluttering or pounding in the chest as well as chest pain, are also common symptoms of PKD.
Hypertension is the most common sign of PKD.
The increase in blood pressure can cause kidney damage.
The symptoms of ARPKD before birth can be revealed by ultrasound.
