 The image is a table that provides information about the management of diabetes. The table is divided into two parts: one for random blood sugar tests and one for fasting blood sugar tests.

The random blood sugar test is used to measure the level of sugar in your blood at any time of day. A random blood sugar level of 200 mg/dL or more suggests diabetes, irrespective of the last meal.

The fasting blood sugar test is used to measure the level of sugar in your blood after you have not eaten for at least 8 hours. A fasting blood sugar level below 100 mg/dL (5.6 mmol/L) is normal and healthy. If it is 100 to 125 mg/dL (5.6 to 6.9 mmol/L) is considered prediabetes. If it is more than 126 mg/dL (7mmol/L) or more on two separate tests, it is diagnostic for diabetes.

In addition to the random and fasting blood sugar tests, there are a number of other tests that can be used to diagnose and manage diabetes. These tests include the oral glucose tolerance test, the glycated hemoglobin (A1C) test, and the urine microalbumin test.

The oral glucose tolerance test is used to measure how your body responds to a sugary drink. The test is performed by giving you a sugary drink to drink and then measuring your blood sugar levels over the next two hours. A blood sugar level of less than 140 mg/dL (7.8 mmol/L) two hours after drinking the sugary drink is considered normal. A blood sugar level of 140 to 199 mg/dL (7.8 to 11.0 mmol/L) two hours after drinking the sugary drink is considered prediabetes. A blood sugar level of 200 mg/dL (11.1 mmol/L) or higher two hours after drinking the sugary drink is considered diabetes.

The glycated hemoglobin (A1C) test measures the average level of sugar in your blood over the past 3 months. The A1C test is a blood test that does not require you to fast. A1C levels of less than 5.7% are considered normal. A1C levels of 5.7% to 6.4% are considered prediabetes. A1C levels of 6.5% or higher are considered diabetes.

The urine microalbumin test measures the amount of albumin in your urine. Albumin is a protein that is found in your blood. When your kidneys are damaged, they can leak albumin into your urine. A urine microalbumin test can be used to detect early kidney damage in people with diabetes.

In addition to the tests listed above, there are a number of other factors that can be used to assess the risk of developing diabetes. These factors include age, weight, family history of diabetes, and ethnicity.

People who are at high risk of developing diabetes should be screened for the condition regularly. Screening should begin at age 45 for people who are at average risk of developing diabetes. Screening should begin at a younger age for people who are at high risk of developing diabetes.

Diabetes is a serious condition, but it can be managed with proper treatment. If you have diabetes, it is important to work with your doctor to develop a treatment plan that is right for you.
