 +
•
+
4
НЕМОPHILIA
Hemophilia is a common hereditary bleeding disorder
caused by deficiencies of either clotting factor VIII or
clotting factor IX.
The severity of bleeding is determined by the extent of factor
deficiency.
Epidemiology
•
Hemophilia reportedly affects 1 in 5000 men globally.
Hemophilia A and B and von Willebrand disease make up the
most prevalent types of bleeding disorders.
The severe disease manifests at the age of one month,
moderate disease at the age of 8 months, and mild disease at
the age of 36 months.
Etiology
•
•
Cause: mutations, deletions, or inversions affecting the
factor VIII or factor gene.
Factor VIII and Factor IX genes are located on the X
chromosome. Hence, Hemophilia is almost an exclusively
male disease.
80% of the cases are of hemophilia A due to factor VIII
deficiency, and 20% of the cases are of hemophilia B due to
factor IX deficiency. Hemophilia C is very rare (autosomal
recessive) and is seen in Ashkenazi Jews due to factor XI
deficiency. Females can become carriers but can never get
affected by the actual clinical features of the disease.
Each son of the carrier has a 50% probability of actually
having the disease and a 50% probability of being perfectly
normal. Similarly, each daughter of the carrier has a 50%
probability of transmitting the disease.
Pathophysiology
•
•
Normal hemostasis: The process requires > 50% of normal
factor VIII and IX levels.
Most patients with hemophilia have levels <5%;
Severe cases have extremely low levels (<1%).
The functional level of factor VIII or IX in hemophilia A and
hemophilia B varies depending on the specific mutation in
factor VIII or IX gene. Hence, the bleeding severity also
depends on the specific mutation.
Refer Flow Chart 4.1
Signs and Symptoms
• Joints, soft tissue, and muscular and mucosal bleeding are
prominent features of hemophilia.
•
The duration of the bleeding is determined by the extent of
trauma and the plasma level of factor VIII or IX.
• Bleeding is often accompanied by mild to moderate pain.
•
•
•
•
•
•
Chronic or recurrent hemarthroses can lead to synovitis and
arthropathy.
In some cases, a mild blow to the head may cause intracranial
bleeding.
If the bleeding is into the base of the tongue, life-threatening
complications like airway compression can occur.
Recurrent bruising and hematoma formation, epistasis, oral
bleeding after tooth extraction, hematemesis, melena, and
hematuria are prominent features.
In mild hemophilia (factor levels 5 to 25% of normal), e.,
there's a high probability of excessive bleeding during or
after the surgery or similar procedures.
Moderate hemophilia (factor levels 1 to 5% of normal)
usually causes bleeding after minimal trauma shows
bleeding even after minimal trauma.
Severe hemophilia (factor VIII or IX level < 1% of normal)
causes severe bleeding throughout life, usually beginning
soon after birth (e.g., scalp hematoma after delivery or
excessive bleeding after circumcision).
Diagnosis
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
Diagnosis is usually made from the following parameters:
Platelet count, prothrombin time (PT), partial
thromboplastin time (PTT), and factor VIII and IX assays.
Sometimes von Willebrand factor activity and antigen and
multimer composition are also used to reach a diagnosis.
In any patients with recurrent bleeding, unexplained
hemarthroses, or a prolongation of the PTT, we can suspect
Hemophilia. In hemophilia, the PTT is prolonged, but the PT
and platelet count are normal.
A mixing study (adding factor VIII) is done when the PTT is
prolonged. In hemophilia, PTT becomes normal after the
mixing of clotting factors, while in von Willebrand disease, it
remains prolonged.
The type and severity of the hemophilia are determined by
assays of Factor VIII and IX. Because factor VIII levels may
also be reduced in von Willebrand disease (VWD), von
Willebrand factor (VWF) activity, antigen, and multimer
composition are measured in patients with newly diagnosed
hemophilia A, particularly if the disorder is mild and a family
history indicates that both male and female family members
are affected.
To determine whether a female is a true carrier of hemophilia
A, factor VIII is measured.
In a similar fashion, to determine whether one is a true carrier
of hemophilia B, factor IX is measured.
+
15
